
** Pure 0.6 (in progress)

New stuff in this release (please see the ChangeLog and the manual for
details):

- Macros: rewriting rules applied at compile time, which can be used for
preprocessing purposes, optimizing and inlining function calls at the source
level, and implementing user-defined special forms.

- Thunks a.k.a. "futures": anonymous parameterless closures, which are used to
implement call-by-need and lazy data structures. In particular, the prelude
now implements lazy lists a.k.a. "streams".

- Private namespaces. You can now declare symbols as private in a module, to
keep the global public namespace clean.

- Sentries (object finalizers) and references (mutable expression pointers).
File objects in the system module now employ sentries in order to close
themselves when they're garbage-collected.

- New interactive startup files (.purerc). These are just normal Pure scripts
with additional definitions for interactive usage.

- The 'list' command was renamed to 'show' (to avoid a clash with the prelude
function 'list'), and a new 'dump' command was added. The latter is similar to
'show', but allows you to save a snapshot of your current interactive
environment in a file.

- User-defined hook for the expression printer (__show__). This allows you to
define your own custom print representations for expressions at runtime.

- Syntax highlighting for gedit (contributed by Eddie Rucker).

** Pure 0.5 2008-08-24

This release sports LLVM 2.3 support and a bunch of bug fixes and improvements
in the language, the standard library and the code generator. As usual, please
check the ChangeLog for details. Here is a brief rundown of the most important
changes:

- Language: Haskell-like 'as' patterns. Constant definitions. Revised
list-of-tuples and 'using' syntax, as discussed on the mailing list. New $$
sequence operator. The XML entity character escapes were updated to the latest
from W3C.

- Updated syntax highlighting modes. Kate mode now supports folding of
comments and block structure.

- Improved script and dynamic library search algorithms, as discussed on the
mailing list.

- Various improvements in the C interface. Also refactored the runtime library
to provide a semantically complete public API for module writers.

- Improvements and bugfixes in the code generator.

- Library: Jiri Spitz' port of the Q container types (array.pure, dict.pure,
heap.pure, set.pure). New math.pure module which implements additional
mathematical functions as well as complex and rational numbers. New time- and
signal-related functions in the system module.

- More examples. In particular, make sure you have a look at Libor Spacek's
cool Mayan calendar and his unbelievingly fast n-queens algorithm. :)

- Better OSX support.

- Thanks to Rooslan S. Khayrov's patches, this release now works with LLVM
2.3. Please note that LLVM 2.2 support has been dropped, as we encountered
various issues with the LLVM 2.2 JIT.

- Toni Graffy has contributed openSUSE packages (available via Packman),
Alvaro Castro Castilla a Gentoo ebuild. Ryan Schmidt continues to maintain the
MacPorts package.

A big thank you to all who reported bugs and contributed code and patches, in
particular: Alvaro Castro Castilla, Toni Graffy, Rooslan S. Khayrov, Eddie
Rucker, Ryan Schmidt, Libor Spacek and Jiri Spitz.

** Pure 0.4 2008-06-19

This release features some more bug and portability fixes, a cleanup of the
source tree and an overhaul of the build system, see the ChangeLog for
details. Building a separate runtime lib on x86-64 works now (but requires a
patched LLVM, see the INSTALL file for details). Moreover, it is now possible
to install different Pure versions in parallel.

An Emacs mode for Pure and support for executing Pure scripts using "shebangs"
has been added. Paging of the 'list' command is now implemented using the
program specified with the PURE_MORE environment variable. This allows you to
disable this option (if PURE_MORE is undefined) or choose any pager program
and options that you prefer. Define PURE_MORE=more in your shell startup files
to get back the old behaviour of piping 'list' output through 'more'.

There's also a new syntax for multiple left-hand sides in function definitions
and 'case' rules, as suggested by Jiri Spitz and discussed on the mailing
list. Please refer to the manual page for details. To accommodate this change,
the bitwise operators '&' and '|' were renamed to 'and' and 'or',
respectively.

** Pure 0.3 2008-06-06

This release sports a lot of improvements as well as bug and portability
fixes, see the ChangeLog for details. Many memory leaks have been plugged, and
tail call elimination has been improved a lot. The build system has gone
through a major overhaul, adding autoconf support. 64 bit support has been
improved as well, and Pure now builds and runs fine on MS Windows. Many
library functions have been rewritten to make them tail-recursive, and some
new functions have been added. Last but not least, the runtime support is now
implemented as a separate shared library which makes it possible to link
external modules against the runtime, and reduces the memory footprint when
multiple instances of the interpreter are run as different processes.

Special thanks to Tim Haynes, John Lunney, Eddie Rucker, Ryan Schmidt, Libor
Spacek and Jiri Spitz for contributions, suggestions and bug reports.

** Pure 0.2 2008-05-04

On the heels of Pure 0.1 comes the first bugfix release which addresses a
couple of bugs, misfeatures and Mac OSX compatibility issues, please refer to
the ChangeLog for details. I also added a more detailed INSTALL guide (thanks
are due to Eddie Rucker who wrote most of the new material in this guide) and
updated the manpage with a few minor corrections and some remarks about issues
raised on the Pure mailing list.

Please note that there are still some issues with Pure on 64 bit systems (as
well as on Ubuntu running on PowerPC) which are still on my TODO list, these
will hopefully be fixed in the next release.

Thanks to all who sent in bug reports and patches, in particular: Chris
Double, Tim Haynes, Eddie Rucker, Ryan Schmidt and Libor Spacek. (I hope I
didn't forget anyone.)

** Pure 0.1 2008-04-29

The much-awaited initial release. ;-) The interpreter is already fully
functional, but of course there's still a lot to be done (see the TODO file
for details). Please note that this is a preliminary, "beta" release, so
expect some bugs (and please report them to the author!).

The Pure project is now hosted at SourceForge, see http://pure-lang.sf.net. A
mailing list should soon be available, too.

See the INSTALLATION section in the README file to get up and running quickly.
After Pure is installed, read the Pure manual page (also available in various
formats from the Pure website) and have a look at the stuff in the examples
subdir, especially hello.pure, and review the standard library modules
(lib/*.pure).

Enjoy!

Albert Graef <Dr.Graef@t-online.de>
